---
layout: page
title: "1 The Style Tag"
nav_order: 3
parent: "2. Basic CSS"
---


# The Style Tag

## What is CSS? 

CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets. It is a language used for describing the presentation of web pages. CSS is used to control the layout of multiple web pages all at once. It also helps keep the presentation of the web pages consistent across multiple devices.

## Styling the Body Element

Let's say we have the following HTML code:

```html
<body>
  <h1 style="font-family: Helvetica; color: #333;">This is a Sample Page</h2>
  <p style="font-family: Helvetica; color: #333;">My first paragraph!</p>
  <p style="font-family: Helvetica; color: #333;">My second paragraph!</p>
  <p style="font-family: Helvetica; color: #333;">My third paragraph!</p>
</body>
```

In the example above, we are using the `style` attribute to apply styling to the `body` element. We are setting the font-family, font-size, and font-color of the page.

Using a `style` attribute is not the most efficient way to apply styling. A better way to do this is to use a `style` tag. This allows us to apply overall styling to an entire page. 

Let's update our example and use a `style` tag instead:

```html
<head>
  <style>
    body {
      font-family: Helvetica; 
      color: #333;
    }
  </style>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>This is a Sample Page</h2>
  <p>My first paragraph!</p>
  <p>My second paragraph!</p>
  <p>My third paragraph!</p>
</body>
```

In the example above, we are using the `style` tag to apply styling to the `body` element. This allows us to apply styling to the entire page. We are setting the font-family, font-size, and font-color of the page. This will result in the same output as the previous example without repeating a  `style` attribute in each element.

## Styling Header Elements

We can also apply styling to individual elements, such as all `h1` elements on a page. To do this, we simply add a styling to the `h1` element in the `style` tag:

```html
<head>
  <style>
    body {
      font-family: Helvetica; 
      font-size: 16px; 
      color: #333;
    }
    h1 {
      font-size: 24px;
      font-weight: bold;
    }
  </style>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>This is a Sample Page</h1>
  <p>This is some sample text.</p>
</body>
```

In the example above, we are using the `style` tag to apply styling to the `h1` element. We are setting the font-size and font-weight of the `h1` element. This will result in all `h1` elements on the page having a font-size of 24px and a font-weight of bold. 

## Styling Other Elements

We can also apply styling to any other element type. For example, we can add styles to all `h2`, `h3`, and `p` elements on a page by adding a styling to each element type in the `style` tag:

```html
<head>
  <style>
    body {
      font-family: Helvetica; 
      font-size: 16px; 
      color: #333;
    }
    h1 {
      font-size: 24px;
      font-weight: bold;
    }
    h2 {
      font-style: italic;
    }
    h3 {
      font-weight: bold;
    }
    p {
      font-family: Arial;
    }
  </style>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>This is a Sample Page</h1>
  <h2>This is a Subheading</h2>
  <h3>This is a Sub-Subheading</h3>
  <p>This is some sample text.</p>
</body>
```

In the example above, we are using the `style` tag to apply styling to the `h2`, `h3`, and `p` elements. We are setting the font-style of the `h2` element, the font-weight of the `h3` element, and the font-family of the `p` element. This will result in all `h2`, `h3`, and `p` elements on the page having the specified styles.

## Challenge - Add a Style Tag to your Biography

In this challenge, you will update your existing Replit or make a new one using the instructions below.

Instructions:

1. Open your existing Replit or make a new one.
2. Remove all style tags from your HTML and add a single style tag at the top of your page.
3. Add styling to the body element to change the font-family, font-size, and font-color of the page.
4. Add styling to the h1 element to change the font-size and font-weight.
5. Save your Replit and submit a link to it.